### Digital History Reflection 


This class has been interesting to say the least. Initially, I did not know what I would do for this project. I anticipated maybe making an interactive family tree, as such a site would help me better understand my own research. However, what I decided upon was a much better project altogether. Instead, I decided to digitize a portion of the *Catalogus Baronum*, a twelfth-century registry from the kingdom of Sicily that recorded the local lords and their military obligations and fiefs. I will not lie, I did not really have a research question guiding me. For my master's defense, I conducted extensive research on the administration of the Kingdom of Sicily. The *diwans*, administrative institutions used within the kingdom, which were employed by eunuchs, the subject of my research, were closely associated with the registry. The Diwan Baronum, created under King William II, expanded upon the initial *Catalogus Baronum* compiled by the first king, Roger II. In this way, both my research and the registry went hand in hand. After reading one of the essays, “Learning to Code” by Stephen Ramsay, I realized I had a ‘problem,’ and I wanted a solution, which is how digital history projects are born. Really, my research question was secondary; I was interested in which lord had the most military obligation, but much more interested in seeing parts of the registry more easily accessible. 


When it came to the project itself, very little methodology was used. I would be doing most of the work without a computer. I manually translated and transcribed these entries. I considered using OCR, but the book has footnotes, some entries are less systematic, and I would spend more time digitizing the book for OCR than I would if I just did it manually. From the beginning, I wanted this to be a database with entries, as this would allow me and other users to more easily interpret the data, which could result in comparisons and help determine who or which region had the most fiefs and the most powerful lords. However, after conversations with you and other students, a map and a more visual approach could answer my research question more directly. From the coursework and my experience with GIS, I knew that choropleth maps were excellent tools and decided that visualization would best demonstrate what I wanted to show. 


Collectively, I think this project was a huge success. The hardest part was the manual labor and the time it took to type out these entries and translate Latin. However, because the vast majority of the entries used the same language, after about the twentieth entry things began to speed up. The website itself provides more information than I could have possibly imagined. What had started off as a selfish desire to read entries more easily became a powerful tool. If I were to ever complete the entire catalog, I see this being the ground for all kinds of research. Being able to visualize where lords and resources are concentrated is powerful. For example, in my research, I rely heavily on the text *The History of the Tyrants of Sicily* by Hugo Falcandus. In it, Count Gilbert of Gravina plays a massive role; whoever he sided with during a series of civil wars would gain a powerful ally. The Monarch had to kick him out of the kingdom because he posed a huge threat. With the registry digitized, we now know that he controlled over a hundred knights and lords from all over Apulia who had ties of allegiance to him. This information could be extracted manually by going through these entries, but the site makes accessing it so much easier and without language training.


I think the biggest challenges for the project were predicated upon my inability to code and the sheer length of the registry. The *Catalogus Baronum* has over sixteen hundred entries. If I were using OCR maybe that would be feasible for a single semester project, but I was not. I was manually transcribing these entries and as of right now I trust no machine to translate Latin. I knew I had to limit myself or this project would go nowhere slowly and by the end of the semester I would have little to show besides some long CSV files. So I chose to only do a hundred entries (well technically 99). It was a good stopping point as it was a large number but realistically achievable and ended conveniently where the text begins a new list of fees owed to another count. Beyond this, I needed to read a few academic articles to make sense of the language being used, as there are two different amounts of knights in each entry and I was unfamiliar with constables in a medieval context like this. The actual task of coding was another challenge and a far more complex one. I had no idea how I was going to actually make the site a reality with the limited amount of coding I knew. After trying to make a page by myself I decided AI was the best way forward to have something presentable enough by the end of the semester.


I used GitHub Copilot for nearly all of the coding. I do not think I manually edited any code. This is not a coding class and I am not a coder. The limited exercises we had done (which I never used AI for) did not provide enough experience for me to make this myself. I could spend hour upon hours, looking through year-old forum posts and sloppily compiling something that would take more time to troubleshoot, or just bite the bullet and use AI. I do not like AI, it is bad for a variety of reasons that I have brought up throughout the semester, but it can be revolutionary. Making the website was fun, there was no tedium. I spent my time implementing new features rather than trying to make one work properly. There are over a thousand lines of code for the map alone. There is no fathomable way I would have been able to do this without its use. However, this is a bit problematic. It has quickly exceeded what I know about code. I can recognize some of the language being used within the code, but not what it does because I lack the extensive training required to understand it. It is not a black box but a very gray box. The AI worked flawlessly, but all of my data was transcribed and translated correctly already. I think that things might have been dicier if I had relied on it for the extraction and the compiling of the data, not merely displaying it. Having said this, AI did not help me learn anything. It did the job of coding for me so I did not have to. As I said, there is no way I could have made this with what I know. I provided the data, and AI, being the tool it is, made it into something presentable. I will not take credit for anything beyond the data itself, as doing so would be wrong. 


If I could do this differently and had no time restraints in some magical scenario, I would firstly learn to code. Not having to use AI would be nice, even if it is convenient. I could have made this site by hand and with my own ability rather than a water guzzling, silicon brick near some newly created Cancer Alley. I would have also liked to have added all the entries and seen the full potential of a database like this. In a more realistic scenario, I think I would have changed the aesthetic of the website. The red and tan color scheme is fine, but it could have been a bit more modern and professional-looking. 


Digital history is arguably the future of history in a broader sense. With the world becoming more online and technologically advanced, these skills are a necessity. I am a medievalist and I often work with documents a thousand years old. There is no way I could be a medievalist without digital historians. The act of digitizing manuscripts, OCRing text, and uploading them to digital archives are required for me and everyone else to access these documents. The future will require us to use digital history practices to more easily access information, but also in a way that democratizes it so that anyone with an internet connection can access it as well.


My biggest concern is really AI. We need to carefully navigate both the ethical and practical dilemmas of these tools. We cannot support data centers that destroy our environment more than we are already doing, and we cannot support these arguably evil corporations that are misanthropic by nature and want to commodify intelligence. This is anti-human, however, for some tasks like coding, it is one of the most powerful tools to be created. I do not know how to navigate this; I am not a philosopher. Yes, I relied heavily on AI for this project, and it turned out well, but I feel bad. I feel like I am both a hypocrite and part of the larger problem. I do not know how to reconcile these emotions besides not using it more than I must, and even that is not a good solution. 


This class has been incredibly useful. I learned the vocabulary and many of the underlying practices that go into digital history and I am better off for it. This is the future and if we want to make history relevant, democratized, and not more of a commodity than it already is, we need to learn these skills. These skills are also what employers are really looking for. I have been scoping out jobs recently, since I just completed my MA, and most jobs outside of academia require us to use software that manages digital archives or libraries. Being able to physically navigate an archive is not really an employable skill outside of academia, but being able to understand, and meaningfully digitize along with organizing and examining computational data are useful both within and outside academia. Hopefully, the website, which I will be putting on my CV, will show that I have some of the skills required to work with digital materials. 


Altogether, this class was fun and informative. I learned about an aspect of history I was unaware of, along with a variety of coding languages like Markdown, and the way computational tools can help in historical research. The reality is, I will likely be working with some form of computational methodology here in the future. I am glad I took this class; I got to use new tools (AI), even if I disliked them, and developed and created a successful project that was way outside the boundaries of my comfort zone. 

